- `Data set` is a collection of data. Data used in machine learning is stored in a data matrix. 
- `A data matrix` is a structured table consisting of rows and columns.  
- `Features` are input variables. They are the data contained in the columns of a data matrix. One feature value is contained in one column. Each individual feature is an attribute that describes the data. 
- `Labels` is the attribute that we want to predict which is represented by Y
- `Example - data point`  is an instance of data. a row in the data matrix
    - Labeled example - contains features and a labe
    - Unlabeled exampple -  contains only features and no label


### Supervised learning 
-  Attempts to discover the relationship between features and an associated label for the purpose of future prediction. Supervised learning creates a computer program, or model, that learns this relationship from past data to make predictions on similar yet never-before-seen data; it learns to predict a label. 
- Because supervised learning models learn by using prior knowledge of an expected output (label) based on a given input (features), supervised learning algorithms use labeled examples as input to train models. 

    #### Training
    - `learning` — the model. During training, a standard supervised machine learning algorithm is run on training data comprised of labeled examples, enabling the algorithm to gradually learn the relationship between features and labels.
    - During this training process, a predictive model is built and iteratively improved by using the label as means to check its correctness. 
    - For example, if the model is inaccurately predicting the label (a patient’s health), the model can be tweaked to consider some features (a patient’s symptoms) as carrying more weight than others (a patient’s height or age). 
    -  Once training is completed, the result is an optimal model that can be used to make future predictions.

    #### Model
    - The learned program that is able to make predictions on new, previously unseen data. 
    - A supervised learning model is said to have two phases. 
        - The first phase is the training phase, in which the model is built, and 
        - The second phase is the prediction phase — often called inference phase or testing phase — in which the model is used to make predictions. 

    #### Generalization
    - Generalization is a model’s ability to adapt to new, previously unseen data that is similar to the data that it has been trained on.



###  Supervised learning algorithms
- ### Classification
    The labels are discrete, or categorical values. Classification models predict these categorical values (classes) or the class probability membership (80% chance a patient is healthy).

- ### Regression
    The labels are continuous, or any real valued number. 


### Unsupervised learning
- Unsupervised learning is about discovering patterns in data without the use of training data containing labeled examples. 
- Finds examples that are similar to each other and mapping them to different segments, or clusters.
-  For example, when provided images of different animals, the algorithm might learn to cluster together animals of the same genus based on having common traits
    
    - Clustering is an unsupervised learning technique that groups subsets of data — `clusters` — that are collectively similar to one another based on the similarity of their feature values.





